yeah so this book sort of you were in
quite a bit of personal anguish yourself
is so you have this deep attachment to
it I can it's my first book and I'm
working on an um a new book on the
history of plastic surgery uh-huh
a fast name with that as well yeah it's
it's interest so I'm I'm looking at a
guy named Harold gillies who was
rebuilding soldiers faces during World
War one and if you've ever seen these
guys photos I mean it's we have no
problems you know you you think we have
no problems in the 21st century you look
at these guys because they've been shot
through the face and their jaws are
missing and Harold gillies on really
designs or starts plastic surgery as we
know it and it was a time when losing a
limb made you a hero but losing your
face made you a monster so these guys
are really isolated and so what gillies
does is he gives them their identity
back so it starts on the battlefields of
World War one and it's gonna kind of
follow gillies throughout I like to do
character-driven stories even though
they're 100% true I like to sort of
follow medical history through the eyes
of one particular person Wow yeah the
the history of plastic surgery is
fascinating to me and I'm hooked on that
show botched oh yeah
people is so great this is me watching
Bob this is me stop doing what people
put themselves through right and I
started following some plastic surgeons
on Instagram just to kind of know what
what you know they're doing today and
and thinking about the ethics of how
they target people on social media and
how do we feel about that and I'm
telling you I'm 37 I'm feeling bad about
my body I can't imagine if you're like
14 and awkward in your barb you know and
you and you and you have access to these
accounts and the effect it has on young
people on Instagram and everything well
I had Jonathan hate on the podcast who
wrote this book the cobbling of the
American mind and one of the big things
that he discusses is people comparing
themselves to others through social
media and children particularly girls
yeah this higher instances of suicide
cutting depression much higher instances
of depression
I believe it you know I believe it too
it's crazy and then you see someone like
Kylie Jenner who
transforms herself literally from an
ugly duckling to a beautiful swan yeah
yeah and it's all done through the knife
and it's great and that'sthat's the
whole thing like that that kind of
beauty is unattainable release or oh
yeah this gentleman this is Harold
gillies on one of his patients and well
that's the end yeah and what he did was
on he invented this thing called the
tube pedicle where he would take skin
and he would he basically create a tube
and he can place it somewhere on the
face where the defect was and the blood
supply would make it attach and the guy
did an incredible job
I mean first bird 19 that's probably
1917 right there that's like better than
a lot of the people on Bob joking the
final product and that's gillies down
down there that yeah that's another man
no he was incredible
and really when you think about what
these guys went through - yeah um so the
so my book is starting with this guy
named Percy Clair who shot for both
cheeks and his face is just blowing off
and to get off the battlefield was half
the struggle because if your face is
blowing off most of the time the
stretcher bearers will just pass you up
because they think you're gonna die but
it was a survivable wound and so just
getting off the battlefield you know so
you sit there for 12 hours die in the
process you know food you can eat no
food and that was the other thing so a
lot of these guys died because well
intending nurses would lay them down and
if you don't have a jaw your tongue
slips back into your throat you choke
yeah how are you suffocate so so just
getting to Harold gillies Hospital so he
starts this incredible facial and jaw
unit in Britain during the war just to
get there was a battle and then you have
to go through all these painful
operations and so I want to look at that
and then of course like how does that
become what we do today but equally I
always tell people that botched is one
form of plastic surgery but of course
there's a lot of important surgeons
doing reconstructive work yeah um you
know and now we have face transplants
which are incredible I don't know Jamie
if you can find someone who's had a face
transplant but there's been quite a few
yeah
there's you know the I think the hardest
part is finding the donor
mm-hmm it's hard to get people to donate
their organs as it is but think about a
face is so personal yeah and the last
one National Geographic did a spread on
it it was I 18 I think it was an 18 year
old girl who shot herself in the face
and in a moment of rage and um and
anyway she ended up having his face
transplant about three years later and
the the donor face I think with someone
who was in their 30s this person had
died I think of an overdose and then the
family decided to give this face over so
it's it's actually incredible what we
can do when you think about you know
from the battlefields of World War one
to what Gilly is doing to where we are
today with facial reconstruction and
it's just going to get better and better
yeah I'm sure it is gonna get better and
better and for people with disagreeing
injuries and things it's fantastic yeah
what would freaks me out about botched
is the psychological aspect of people
constantly tinkering with their looks
it's just
yeah and now they have apps where you
can upload your face and you can change
things about your face and it's just
we're we're all becoming more and more
insecure I think with social media
um and and yeah it's part of this world
where we where nothing is real and
that's the other part of it this a lot
of these pictures aren't real now people
are doctoring their photos to make
themselves look different than they
actually do look and then walks into the
studio and you're like wait that's not
what I thought that person was gonna
look like this woman who's friends with
my wife her neighbor is a model and she
takes all of her photos with no makeup
on and then they put the makeup on her
oh my god yeah that's how they do it
they do it all through Photoshop so she
can do whatever you turn into an avatar
but it's kind of crazy that they they
take photos with no makeup and then yeah
yeah